So, now what we're going to do is we're going to
take this concept that takes all those
low-level routers and
Ethernet and fiber optic and
simplifies all that down to
this one thing called a socket.
We make a socket and then we connect
the socket to a far end application.
But, then the problem is what do
we do to talk to that application?
And so we just got done talking about
how the Transport Layer
talks back and forth.
And we can open this connection
between our application,
remember that this side is our computer
and this side is the server computer.
And we're going to pretend that all
this complexity doesn't exist and
we've made a socket connection.
And that is what we just
got done talking about.
But, then the question becomes, what we're
really interested in is not actually
just making sockets, but
doing something useful like web browsing.
Web browsing to a web server.
And then the question is, now that we
have a connection, what do we say?
That's really what this is, our next
problem to solve is, what do we say?
So, the most common protocol that we run
across these days is a protocol called
HTTP, which stands for
Hypertext Transport Layer Protocol.
And it's really the most dominant
application layer protocol
on the Internet.
It is how we retrieve HTML documents.
But, it also does web
services like API stuff.
It can talk to those things as well.
And part of its success is its simplicity.
It's so simple that I can explain
it to you in like 20 minutes, and
you can actually hack it
yourself within 20 minutes.
So, we take this socket, this ability
to call, and you basically say,
I'm going to make a connection and
I'm going to ask for a document, and
then wait, and you'll send me
the document, and we'll disconnect.
So, it's a very simple protocol that
has a whole ton of subtlety to it,
but at its core, it's very simple.
And that means we can use it
to do lots and lots of things.
And it's just the set of
rules that tell browsers
what they are supposed to talk
when they're talking to servers.
What are they supposed to say?
Who talks first is one of the biggest
questions of one of these protocols.
So, a protocol is just a set
of rules of the road, right?
Do we drive on the right
side of the road or do we
drive on the left side of the road?
In driving and in protocols it kind of
doesn't matter, as long as we agree.
Just so
that we don't bump into each other.
And like I said, one of the first things
that you've got to figure out in a protocol
is, who's going to wait for the other talk,
and who's going to talk first.
If they're both waiting for the other
person to talk, then nothing good happens,
and you can't get started,
so you have to start.
So, if you look at HTML, and
we look at sort of what our web browser
has in its location bar, who knows,
some day in the future they won't
even show us location bars.
But this is what's called a URL,
or a Uniform Resource Locator.
And if you watch the video that
I have of Robert Cailliau,
you will see that he says, and
I agree, that one
of the critical things that the Web did
was created the Uniform Resource Locator.
And the Uniform Resource Locator,
it's a simple concept but before that,
we had to know what kind of host to talk to,
what kind of service to talk to,
and what kind of application protocol,
and what kind of document.
And so, if you take a look at your
typical URL like this YouTube URL,
it's broken into what protocol are we
going to use to talk to the server,
this is the Hypertext Transport Protocol,
what host are we going to talk to, and
then what document are we going to get.
So we're going to connect to this host, and
use the HTTP protocol to
request this document, okay?
And you could see the same thing.
We're going to talk to host name
youtube.com and this is the document
that we are asking to get, okay?
And so that's how these URLs work.
They have a protocol, a host, and
a document. And again, a simple concept but
as long as everyone does the same
thing, things work out quite well.
If you looked at specs for
the URL they are actually somewhat
complex. but in the basic thing.
So if we think about the act
of surfing on the Web,
you've got some page that you're looking
at and then you've got these little hot
links on that page, and you click
something and then you get a new page.
This is what we call
the request-response cycle.
So, let me show you that in a web browser.
Okay?
So, let's find myself my web browser.
Okay.
Here's a happy little web page, right?
Here's a URL doctorchuck.com/page1.htm.
And so it's a rather nondescript webpage.
The only thing that you can
do is go to a different page.
So, right now this web browser's not
talking to any web server at all.
And at some point I hover
over this little link.
And I say, oh, I would like to get this
other page and so I click the button and
when I click the button, that tells the
browser to go retrieve a different page.
And if you look down here in
the lower tiny left hand corner,
down here, let me go back to it now.
If you hover down there in the corner,
you can see which page it's going to
go to. Okay?
So when I click, the browser says, oh,
the user, me, needs a different page.
So it then makes a socket connection and
retrieves that page and shows the page.
Now, this is all happening
the moment I press click.
Okay, that's a different page.
Now I can, reading my page,
I'm going to click on something else and
it's going to go somewhere else, okay.
So, that's called
the request-response cycle,
because at the moment you click,
it makes a request,
the other page that it gets is
the response. The request-response cycle.
Okay, so request-response cycle,
you are asking for a new document.
So this is how it works, all right.
You're going to hover over
top of that first link.
You click on the link, that click is
an event that goes to a piece of software
running on your computer
called the browser.
Could be Chrome or Mozilla or
whatever, Firefox.
And then the browser makes a network
connection to the web server,
the web server's a different computer.
And it makes a connection on port 80,
because it's like we're
going to talk to the Web, and
then it sends the application request for
a document, and that's the GET request.
It sends this GET request, the web server
goes la la la la da la, and
does all these other things, and then it
sends us back a page that might have come
off of a disk drive,
it might have come off of a database.
Who knows how it made that.
And it sends us back some HTML with
less thans and greater thans.
And the browser receives that
back as the information and
then shows it and formats it. Okay?
And so this is the
request-response cycle.
This side is the request and
this side is the response.
And then every time you click, it kind
of goes and gets retrieves, displays.
Get, retrieve, display.
Request-response cycle.
And that's what your browser does over and
over and over again.
Now if you wanted to write a browser,
you could go find the standard,
the standard that would talk
about how to send this data.
These standards are often developed
by an organization called
the Internet Engineering Task Force,
or IETF,
and they're often called Request for
Comments.
It's kind of ironic to name
a standard that we've been using for
years and years an RFC, or Request for
Comments, but that's an irony
on purpose that basically is saying none
of these Internet protocols are so
set in stone that we could
never imagine changing them.
So these things, even though
some of them are many years old,
this particular one that I'm
looking at is the IP layer.
Right? And it's September 1981.
Now, a lot of things have changed.
And that's why they call them Request for
Comments.
And so you can see these,
they're all open standards,
there's no charge to look at them.
And you can go read the standard for IP,
and you can go read the standard for TCP,
and HTTP, and all these things,
if you really want to read it.
So, if we were to look
at one of the protocols,
this might even be obsolete by now.
Above this Hypertext Transport Protocol,
the HTTP.
And then we could read through it.
And it's hundreds of pages long, and if we
read down farther and farther and farther,
and you read far enough,
it would say, if you are a client like
a browser that wants to send to a web
server, what is the syntax of that, right?
And so it basically tells you what
the thing is supposed to look like,
you read a little farther,
read a little farther.
And what it will tell you is that, you're
supposed to send a first three characters
are capital G, capital E, capital T, followed by a space,
followed by the page you're interested in.
And there's a little bit about which
protocol version you want to use.
And so if you look at what goes on
underneath, this is how it works and
if you have the right software running on
your system, you can hack HTTP as well.
And so it's such an easy
protocol that we can fake it.
And Telnet is a command
that was originally used to
log in to other computers but
because it's unencrypted, it
generally is not used to do login anymore
cause we want to use a secure login.
But, some computers,
I'm using a Macintosh, Linux has it.
You may be able to download a Telnet for
Windows.
I don't know,
you'd probably google Telnet for Windows.
But basically, this is a command line.
And I'm going to use this to
hand talk the protocol.
So, let me show you how this works.
Okay, here I am in the command line.
And so I am going to use the Telnet
command, which is not a web protocol.
Telnet simply makes a connection and
then sends whatever characters I type
with the keyboard across that socket.
So I could say Telnet www.dr-chuck.com.
And I'm telling it that I
want to connect to port 80.
So, I told you that port 80 was the port
that we use to talk to web browsers.
So, now it's opening a socket and
connecting to port 80,
which I showed you a little while back how
to do this exact same thing in Python.
And now what's happening is
it's waiting for me to talk.
I might say HELLO THERE,
and I'm not talking the right protocol.
I said this, I typed this HELLO THERE.
And it blew up, and
it's saying Bad Request.
Your browser sent a request
the server could not understand.
Additionally, a 404 was not found,
bla bla bla bla bla bla bla. Okay.
So, that is something, you will not see
this if you use a browser because your
browser won't be dumb enough to say
hello there.
Because if you read the specification,
we know that the first thing
you're supposed to type is GET.
So, let me try this again.
I'm going to again,
make a Telnet to that web server.
The web server got a request,
it was just a badly formed request.
And this time I'm going to do it right.
I'm going to type capital G,
capital E, capital T, GET,
and then the page I'm looking for,
http://www.dr-chuck.com/page1.htm.
I have to tell which protocol I want to use,
HTTP/1.0.
And you also see the IP address.
Oh, I was too slow.
I was too slow.
It was mad.
Okay, I'll do it faster next time.
I'll just point out that
this is the IP address.
The domain name is www.dr-chuck.com.
But the actual, like, low-level phone
number of dr-chuck.com, at least for
today, it could change, is 198.251.66.43,
and then within that server we're
talking to port 80 and
that's how we talk to the web server.
Okay, I'm going to put this
little string in my cut and
paste buffer so that I can type it faster,
so it doesn't blow up on me.
Okay, that's bad.
I need to type it.
So, now I'm going to make my connection again
and I won't be so talkative this time.
Now I type really fast GET, and
then I'll hit Enter and I hit Enter again.
And now I have talked properly to this
web server and it's given me good stuff.
I typed this blank line.
So, you have to type GET and then you
have to type one Enter twice, basically.
And that's part of the protocol.
You have to type GET and Enter twice.
And then it gives me a set of headers,
which are metadata about this document.
And it says when we're doing this,
and what server I'm talking to, and
how much data I'm going to get back.
I get 131 characters back.
And then it gives me a blank line.
Again, part of the HTTP protocol.
And then it gives me the actual
content of the document I asked for.
The first page,
that's the HTML for that page.
And then it closes the connection.
I mentioned it opens a connection,
sends a get request, retrieves the data,
and the connection gets closed.
This is why the HTTP protocol is so
delightfully simple, okay?
So, we just hacked into a web server.
And you can try to do
it in any web server.
You'll notice as this one did if you type
too slow you must not really be a browser
you're running too slow. Boot.
So, they do attempt to defend themselves
sometimes from you doing things and
just typing them randomly.
And if you talk in the secure protocols,
I can't hack the secure protocols nearly
as easily as the insecure protocols.
Okay, so back to our talk.
So, that's it.
That's the request-response cycle, done
by hand, with no web browser whatsoever.
Now interestingly, part of my obsession
with the command line is that in the real
world, most hacking is done by people
who are very skilled with command line.
And you can see an interesting scene that
one of my former students helped write
in the Matrix Reloaded,
where they're actually doing hacking and
they're doing it right
in the command line.
And this use of a very
accurate hacking scene is now
lots of movies now do
accurate hacking instead.
Now, this request-response cycle
when you grab a whole page,
it actually does it many, many times.
And so the original HTML comes back and
then CSS comes back, and there is a way in
most browsers to turn on developer mode.
So let me just show you how
that works in a second.
So, let's go to www.pythonlearn.com.
So there's a page, it's got a lot of stuff
on it, it's got some images, got these,
that, and the other thing.
And I'm going to show you what happens
when you retrieve this page, but
instead watch developer mode.
View > Developer > Console, and
I am going to turn on the network.
So, let me make this a little bigger so
you can see it better.
So, this is a debugger that
most of you could turn on, and
I'm going to actually look at the network,
and I'll clear this all out.
So, I'm going to refresh this page,
and you're going to see that it's making
many request-response cycles, right?
So, it actually pulled in the very
first page, which is the HTML for
the page, then it pulled in CSS and then
it just kept doing more and more things.
To the point where it took
a total of 20 requests.
So, it's more complex than
the single request-response cycle,
but each of these things
are another request-response cycle.
And you'll notice that sometimes
your browser will spin or
something while you're waiting for
a page to load, and
that's because it's got to go request,
response, request, response.
Oh, and I got to get this image file,
and this CSS file, etc., etc., etc.
But they're all based on a request-response
cycle, which is that GET request.
So, that is the application protocol for
HTTP.
Open a socket, send a GET,
send a new line, get back the document,
display the document, and
do that over and over again.
So, whenever I tell you
about application protocols,
it's always more complex
than actually using it.
Okay?
So, up next we're going to do something
a little easier than understanding
application protocols and instead let's
just use an application protocol.